Hello class and welcome back.
I'm gonna go through one more example of implementing the adapter design pattern using composition.
This is the object.
Adapt their implementation with one in the last class and it was a pretty good example.
But I want to provide another one that shows you a little bit more information.
We'll name this project the adapter object composition.
Example 2.
In this example we're going to have two incompatible interfaces that can't talk to one another.
I want to demonstrate an application that use the adapter to calculate the area of different shapes.
So we have two shapes a rectangle on a triangle.
I'm going to show you how it's currently implemented and the current implementation.
We can calculate the area of the rectangle very easily.
We basically use this calculator class and get area method.
The area method takes a rectangle object as input and everything works great but you'll see in this
current permutation we can't do the same for the triangle.
The calculator interface is incompatible with the triangle to get area math that does not take a triangle
object as input.
And so this will allow us to create an adapter.
So first let me create my rectangle and it's a very simple class.
It's just going to this rectangle class will just be a full gel plain old Java object with just a couple
data attributes.
So going to say class rectangle and it's going to have something for length with double double double
double W and then we'll also have our triangle class in here.
Just for simplicity.
This will also just have some data attributes and also a constructor.
So here will say public double B or let's make these good names linked
with
and base base and height.
These are the attributes of a triangle.
Public.
All right.
And then our constructor
which will take two doubles
and set up its member variables base equals B height equals H.
Pretty basic These are the two classes and we'll look at how they're incompatible with the interface
that's created which would be in the next step.
So here's an interface that the client would use to create a new interface class.
We're gonna call this calculator interface
and this is just going to have one method.
This is gonna be the target interface.
This is gonna be public double gate area and it takes a rectangle.
So right off the bat you see how limited that is.
This interface will not work with triangles and we wanted to work with triangles.
Right.
So now that means we're gonna have to write an adapter.
And so if you kind of visualize this project how it's implemented the target is gonna be the calculator
interface right.
This is the interface that a triangle uses to get its area the client is going to is is the current
client cannot use a triangle to get its area.
Little triangles incompatible with the calculator you need to collaborate the client's gonna need to
collaborate with the calculator adapter which confer forms through the calculator interface.
The adapter is going to be the calculator.
That's the existing interface that needs adapting the adapter is gonna be called calculator adapter
that adapts the calculator to the calculator interface.
So let's look at the class that implements this calculator interface.
This is gonna be the adaptive the existing interface that needs adapting this calculator currently calculates
area of a rectangle but we need to calculate the area of a triangle.
So here is our class calculator.
So class calculator implements the calculator interface.
And this is going to have a rectangle and you see how this is very limited because the count the gate
area only takes a rectangle.
So we have a rectangle object
and then we say public.
We implement our interface method.
We say public double get area rectangle R.
And this is going to set the member variable and then it's going to return the rectangle length times
of rectangle dot with right calculating their rectangle pretty straightforward.
Again as I mentioned this only takes a rectangle.
It doesn't take a triangle so it's not going to work with triangles.
And so this calculator interface for the client is not very useful.
So we have to write an adapter.
Perfect spot for an adapter.
And again what happens here is the adapter is gonna be the calculator adapter.
It's going to adapt the calculator to the calculator interface.
It's going to adapt this to this and they adapt these the calculator.
That's what needs adapting.
And the client will be able to work with the triangle.
So let's write the calculator adopt the adapter and say new Java class
calculator adapter.
And this is going to implement our calculator interface
because that's the target.
So calculator interfaces is the target.
We're going to have a calculator as a composition relationship right.
We know that because this is the adapter.
Something like that.
We're also going to have a triangle in here because we need to take the triangle and use it.
We need its attributes in order to adapt.
So we're gonna say triangle T.
And then in our constructor
it's going to take a triangle
and it's just going to set up the member variable T equals my trunk.
Now get area method will allow us to convert the rectangle to a triangle.
So get area remember that takes a rectangle.
That's what we're implementing
inside here.
We're going to create a new calculator.
So in calls remember method.
And we're going to get our rectangle to create a new Rectangle because we need to pass on a rectangle
to the existing interface.
Right.
New rectangle sorry.
And then we're going to calculate the area of a triangle which is zero point five times the base times
the height.
But we have to set it to rectangle attributes.
So we have to see are dot length is going to equal triangle dot base and our dot with is going to equal
our triangle.
So we're gonna do zero point five times the triangle height T dot.
Right.
And that's gonna be our conversion.
Then we can call the calculator method.
We can just return calculator dot get area passing in the rectangle that we just created.
That's converting the triangle to a rectangle.
And that's what our adapter does again.
Has he has a relationship with the calculator that's adapting the calculator to the target interface
which is calculator interface.
It's doing that by implementing the get area method and basically converting the triangle to a rectangle
and then calling to get area method on that rectangle.
Now let's look at a client to see how this can be used.
Let's create a new client.
And this will use the adapter pattern.
So we're gonna print out nice little message saying that we're using the adapter pattern
something like adapter pattern demo.
And this needs to be inside a main.
And what this is doing to it's going to create a new triangle so triangle t equals new triangle.
It's gonna back pass and 20 and 10 as the base in height
and then we're gonna use our calculator interface to create a new calculator adapter
so there is a new calculator adapter and we're gonna pass in our triangle that we just created T.
Now we can actually display the area of the triangle.
So if we say system dot out the front line front line area of the triangle is
Cal dot get area and we actually don't have to pass anything in for this.
So we've pass a null because the rectangles.
Now we already set it within the constructor so
something like that would pass and now because we don't have an actual rectangle T in the constructor
data and so we didn't change the interface we could add another method to get area but we won't have
to change the interface.
The Gary method taking a triangle.
And now when we're running compile this we'll be able to see that the Triangle area is being calculated.
We want to make sure that we don't have any duplication here with our parameters.
Right.
And the adapter we don't even use the R.
We just have to adhere to the interface.
That's why we set it the No.
Hopefully this will compile more dumb mistakes
so now when we run it we can see that we're able to get the triangle and I forgot the change last one
is the rectangle.
So another dumb mistake.
Here we go.
So now hopefully this will work.
Apologize.
I know some of you are doing me for this and give me some bad reviews saying he makes too many mistakes
but I'm not perfect and I do make mistakes so I apologize.
Now hopefully we'll see that the area of the Triangle is one hundred and that is correct.
So again just another nice example the adapter using object composition adapting what what are we adapting
we're adapting the actual calculator to the calculator interface we're allowing now to be able to compute
areas of triangles we just did all this conversion in the adapter the most important thing here is the
adapter and this important does not need to be there.
So I hope this helps.
Thank you.